# CS340ClientServerCode
Repository for work done in CS340 with Mongo and Python


How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

- The first step to ensuring programs are maintainable is to ensure that projects are documented according to industry standard. A well documented product ensures that engineers to who the product up can quickly read through code and features and understand what is going on. I think the second step is ensuring robust code reviews, eliciting feedback from other engineers on work prior to submission to main code bases. Multiple eyes reviewing code helps catch issues and logic flaws and ensures a general understanding among the team of features that are being submitted. This CRUD python module could easily be reused in the future by just slightly altering the queries and the db connection details, making it semi-modular in that way. To make it truly modular, I would probably pull all the db specific pieces and make them dynamic rather than hardcoded, and then seperate the queries into their own class so they weren't part of the general database class. 

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

- Approaching a problem like a computer scientist to me means approaching the problem with an organized plan to solve it. I like to approach with a particular process with an acroynm called PAIR -Probe, Analyze, Isolate, Resolution.  I start by probing, which involves understanding the problem scope and what needs to be solved. The analyze phase involves researching the problem, laying out the details of the problem and approaching it in a methodical way to begin the isolation process. During isolation - we are narrowing down potential solutions and ruling out non-solutions and patterns. Resolution is resolving the problem, implemeting the steps needed to reach whatever goal we have in front of us. Obviously this is a summary of what happens between the phases - The general approach if really about breaking a large problem into several smaller, more manageable problems and then working through those problems in a priority order until we reach a solution.  Solutions or strategies for creating databases for future projects will be similar to this project - As we taking in user requirements, build project goals and epics and lay out user stories, we will ensure we flush out database requirements and build a path of technical work to reach that solution.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

- Computer scientists do a wide variety of things, first and foremost they translate business requirements into technical ones, which are then implemented building functional products. They solve complex technical problems using a wide variety of tools and resources to get the job done. Research and continual learning are crucial to ensuring we are growing and expanding our skill sets and testing and experience on a wide variety of products are both critical in making us well-rounded and desirable for any project team. Working on this type of project helps my company by helping me increase my technical accumen, exposing me to solving complex problems with tools and languages I hadn't used before. Now that I've solved this type of problem, I can bring that skillset back to my job and be much more prepared to solve similar complex problems in the future. 
